notes.md, before:

# CS 260 Notes
Ok well i'm not sure whether to use this notes file or create a new one. This assignment I learned how to use git to push and pull code from github. All you have to say in the consol is git pull or git push. I learned how to edit within and github and within vs code and then how to update my local copy of the repository on vs code. I am now going to commit and push this to github.

[My startup - Simon](https://simon.cs260.click)

## Helpful links

- [Course instruction](https://github.com/webprogramming260)
- [Canvas](https://byu.instructure.com)
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org)

## AWS

My IP address is: 54.81.96.130
Launching my AMI I initially put it on a private subnet. Even though it had a public IP address and the security group was right, I wasn't able to connect to it. Ok this is my second edit of all time.

## Caddy

No problems worked just like it said in the [instruction](https://github.com/webprogramming260/.github/blob/main/profile/webServers/https/https.md).

## HTML

This was easy. I was careful to use the correct structural elements such as header, footer, main, nav, and form. The links between the three views work great using the `a` element.

The part I didn't like was the duplication of the header and footer code. This is messy, but it will get cleaned up when I get to React.

## CSS

This took a couple hours to get it how I wanted. It was important to make it responsive and Bootstrap helped with that. It looks great on all kinds of screen sizes.

Bootstrap seems a bit like magic. It styles things nicely, but is very opinionated. You either do, or you do not. There doesn't seem to be much in between.

I did like the navbar it made it super easy to build a responsive header.

```html
      <nav class="navbar navbar-expand-lg bg-body-tertiary">
        <div class="container-fluid">
          <a class="navbar-brand">
            <img src="logo.svg" width="30" height="30" class="d-inline-block align-top" alt="" />
            Calmer
          </a>
          <button class="navbar-toggler" type="button" data-bs-toggle="collapse" data-bs-target="#navbarSupportedContent">
            <span class="navbar-toggler-icon"></span>
          </button>
          <div class="collapse navbar-collapse" id="navbarSupportedContent">
            <ul class="navbar-nav me-auto mb-2 mb-lg-0">
              <li class="nav-item">
                <a class="nav-link active" href="play.html">Play</a>
              </li>
              <li class="nav-item">
                <a class="nav-link" href="about.html">About</a>
              </li>
              <li class="nav-item">
                <a class="nav-link" href="index.html">Logout</a>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>
    </header>
```

I also used SVG to make the icon and logo for the app. This turned out to be a piece of cake.

```html
<svg width="100" height="100" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <rect width="100" height="100" fill="#0066aa" rx="10" ry="10" />
  <text x="50%" y="50%" dominant-baseline="central" text-anchor="middle" font-size="72" font-family="Arial" fill="white">C</text>
</svg>
```

## React Part 1: Routing

Setting up Vite and React was pretty simple. I had a bit of trouble because of conflicting CSS. This isn't as straight forward as you would find with Svelte or Vue, but I made it work in the end. If there was a ton of CSS it would be a real problem. It sure was nice to have the code structured in a more usable way.

## React Part 2: Reactivity

This was a lot of fun to see it all come together. I had to keep remembering to use React state instead of just manipulating the DOM directly.

Handling the toggling of the checkboxes was particularly interesting.

```jsx
<div className="input-group sound-button-container">
  {calmSoundTypes.map((sound, index) => (
    <div key={index} className="form-check form-switch">
      <input
        className="form-check-input"
        type="checkbox"
        value={sound}
        id={sound}
        onChange={() => togglePlay(sound)}
        checked={selectedSounds.includes(sound)}
      ></input>
      <label className="form-check-label" htmlFor={sound}>
        {sound}
      </label>
    </div>
  ))}
</div>
```

Commit message:

Added to my notes some things I learned while setting up my web server.

notes.md, after:

# CS 260 Notes
Ok well i'm not sure whether to use this notes file or create a new one. This assignment I learned how to use git to push and pull code from github. All you have to say in the consol is git pull or git push. I learned how to edit within and github and within vs code and then how to update my local copy of the repository on vs code. I am now going to commit and push this to github.

[My startup - Simon](https://simon.cs260.click)

## Helpful links

- [Course instruction](https://github.com/webprogramming260)
- [Canvas](https://byu.instructure.com)
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org)

## AWS

My IP address is: 44.192.207.47
Ok I just launched/started my first web server through AWS. Here is the current link that will take you there: http://44.192.207.47/
It had a different public ip address at first but then I allocated an elastic ip address to it so it will always stay with this even if the server isn't running or something. I also learned today how to ssh into the server so it pulled up the console terminal for the server on my laptop and i'm able to make edits and such. This was the command to do it:
ssh -i C:\Users\plast\OneDrive\Desktop\Homework\HorsePics.pem ubuntu@44.192.207.47
This was very cool, i've never done this before.

## Caddy

No problems worked just like it said in the [instruction](https://github.com/webprogramming260/.github/blob/main/profile/webServers/https/https.md).

## HTML

This was easy. I was careful to use the correct structural elements such as header, footer, main, nav, and form. The links between the three views work great using the `a` element.

The part I didn't like was the duplication of the header and footer code. This is messy, but it will get cleaned up when I get to React.

## CSS

This took a couple hours to get it how I wanted. It was important to make it responsive and Bootstrap helped with that. It looks great on all kinds of screen sizes.

Bootstrap seems a bit like magic. It styles things nicely, but is very opinionated. You either do, or you do not. There doesn't seem to be much in between.

I did like the navbar it made it super easy to build a responsive header.

```html
      <nav class="navbar navbar-expand-lg bg-body-tertiary">
        <div class="container-fluid">
          <a class="navbar-brand">
            <img src="logo.svg" width="30" height="30" class="d-inline-block align-top" alt="" />
            Calmer
          </a>
          <button class="navbar-toggler" type="button" data-bs-toggle="collapse" data-bs-target="#navbarSupportedContent">
            <span class="navbar-toggler-icon"></span>
          </button>
          <div class="collapse navbar-collapse" id="navbarSupportedContent">
            <ul class="navbar-nav me-auto mb-2 mb-lg-0">
              <li class="nav-item">
                <a class="nav-link active" href="play.html">Play</a>
              </li>
              <li class="nav-item">
                <a class="nav-link" href="about.html">About</a>
              </li>
              <li class="nav-item">
                <a class="nav-link" href="index.html">Logout</a>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>
    </header>
```

I also used SVG to make the icon and logo for the app. This turned out to be a piece of cake.

```html
<svg width="100" height="100" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <rect width="100" height="100" fill="#0066aa" rx="10" ry="10" />
  <text x="50%" y="50%" dominant-baseline="central" text-anchor="middle" font-size="72" font-family="Arial" fill="white">C</text>
</svg>
```

## React Part 1: Routing

Setting up Vite and React was pretty simple. I had a bit of trouble because of conflicting CSS. This isn't as straight forward as you would find with Svelte or Vue, but I made it work in the end. If there was a ton of CSS it would be a real problem. It sure was nice to have the code structured in a more usable way.

## React Part 2: Reactivity

This was a lot of fun to see it all come together. I had to keep remembering to use React state instead of just manipulating the DOM directly.

Handling the toggling of the checkboxes was particularly interesting.

```jsx
<div className="input-group sound-button-container">
  {calmSoundTypes.map((sound, index) => (
    <div key={index} className="form-check form-switch">
      <input
        className="form-check-input"
        type="checkbox"
        value={sound}
        id={sound}
        onChange={() => togglePlay(sound)}
        checked={selectedSounds.includes(sound)}
      ></input>
      <label className="form-check-label" htmlFor={sound}>
        {sound}
      </label>
    </div>
  ))}
</div>
```
